#### Release 0.2.2

###### [Changelog](./Changelog.mdown), [Manual](./manual/index.mdown)

This release introduces several new methods covering some aspects of `__include__`-ing. 
These methods are `addinclude()`, `rminclude()`, `purgeinclude()` and `stripinclude()`.  

Storing functionality was moved to new `Writer()` class. `store()` method is a proxy for 
explicit creation of `Writer()` instance and calling `store()` method of it.  

`pyproperties` is now equipped with over hundred unit tests.  

More detailed information can be found in [manual](./manual/index.mdown) or in [`DOC`](./DOC) file.

----

**Warning about future:**

In the upcoming release (`0.2.3`) methods `gets()`, `pops()` and `removes()` will be returning list of tuples instead of a dictionary. 
Reason for this is simple: tuples are more handy in loops. Converting list of tuples to dictionary is a one-liner-no-brainer: `dict( [("foo", 0), ("bar", 1)] )`

    for friend, number in foo.gets('friend.*.number'):
        # do your stuff

If you want a dictionary use following snippet:

    bar = dict( foo.gets('friend.*.number') )

----


##### This release brings you:
*   4 update(s),
*   1 fix(es),
*   8 new feature(s),
*   1 removal(s),


#### Version 0.2.2 ():

* __upd__:  `addcomment()` and `addcomments()` renamed to `comment()` and `comments()` respectively,
* __upd__:  `srcorigin` renamed to `origin_source`,
* __upd__:  `propsorigin` renamed to `origin_properties`,
* __upd__:  `getre()` will be removed in `0.2.3` - use `gets()` with `no_expand` argument set to `True`,


* __fix__:  `guess_float_re` now accepts floats of form `6.02e+23`,


* __new__:  `MultipleDeclarationWarning` warning class added,
* __new__:  `Writer` class added,
* __new__:  `addinclude()` method - for placing include directives,
* __new__:  `rminclude()` method - for removing include directives,
* __new__:  `purgeinclude()` method - for removing include directives and all corresponding properties,
* __new__:  `stripinclude()` method - it removes all properties included by a directive but not the directive itself (eg. the directive will be stored not properties),
* __new__:  new unit tests for `save()` and `revert()` added,
* __new__:  unit tests for `addinclude()`, `rminclude()`, `purgeinclude()` and `stripinclude()` added,


* __rem__:  removed deprecated methods `_isvalidline()` and `typeguess()`,

&nbsp;

Yours,  
Marek Marecki.